.TH OIT 1 "January 2026" "oit" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oit \- process and log management TUI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oit
[\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIprocfile\fR]
[\fB\-\-init\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-update\fR]
[\fB\-\-update\fR]
[\fIprocess\fR ...]
.br
.B oit
\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Overitall (oit)
is a terminal user interface (TUI) for process and log management, combining
process management (like overmind) with log viewing (like lnav).
.PP
It reads a Procfile to start and manage processes, tracks their output and
optional log files, and provides an interactive TUI for viewing interleaved
logs with filtering, search, and batch navigation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIpath\fR
Path to config file. Defaults to \fB.overitall.toml\fR.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIpath\fR
Path to Procfile. Overrides the config file setting.
.TP
.B \-\-init
Initialize a new \fB.overitall.toml\fR config file from an existing Procfile.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-update
Skip auto-update check on startup.
.TP
.B \-\-update
Check for updates and exit (doesn't start processes).
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.I process ...
Optional process names to start. If specified, only these processes will
auto-start; others remain stopped but visible. Overrides the
\fBstart_processes\fR config option. Use \fB:s\fR command to start stopped
processes later.
.SH QUICK START
.IP 1. 3
Create a Procfile with your processes:
.RS
.nf
web: bundle exec rails server
worker: bundle exec sidekiq
.fi
.RE
.IP 2. 3
Generate a configuration file:
.RS
.nf
oit --init
.fi
.RE
.IP 3. 3
Edit \fB.overitall.toml\fR to configure log files (optional).
.IP 4. 3
Run \fBoit\fR to start the TUI.
.SH TUI KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B Up/Down
Select previous/next log line.
.TP
.B Shift+Up/Down
Extend selection (multi-select mode).
.TP
.B Enter
Expand selected line (show full content in overlay).
.TP
.B Ctrl+B / Ctrl+F
Page up/down (Vim-style).
.TP
.B PageUp/PageDown
Page up/down.
.TP
.B Home/End
Jump to top/bottom.
.TP
.B ?
Show help overlay.
.TP
.B q
Quit application.
.SS Modes
.TP
.B :
Enter command mode.
.TP
.B /
Enter search mode.
.TP
.B Esc
Exit current mode, close overlays, or jump to latest logs.
.TP
.B w
Cycle display mode: compact -> full -> wrap.
.TP
.B t
Cycle timestamp display: seconds -> milliseconds -> off.
.TP
.B p
Cycle process panel: normal -> summary -> minimal.
.SS Batch Navigation
.TP
.B [ / ]
Previous/next batch.
.TP
.B + / -
Increase/decrease batch window by 100ms.
.SS Clipboard & Batch Operations
.TP
.B c
Copy selected line(s) to clipboard.
.TP
.B Shift+C
Copy entire batch to clipboard.
.TP
.B x
Contextual copy (same process within +/-1s of selected line).
.TP
.B b
Focus on batch containing the selected line.
.SS Trace Capture
.TP
.B s
Start/stop manual trace recording.
.SH TUI COMMANDS
Commands are entered by pressing \fB:\fR followed by the command.
.SS Process Management
.TP
.B :s \fIname\fR
Start a process.
.TP
.B :r \fI[name]\fR
Restart a process (or all processes if no name given).
.TP
.B :k \fIname\fR
Kill (stop) a process.
.TP
.B :q, :quit, :exit
Quit the application.
.SS Filtering
.TP
.B :f \fIpattern\fR
Add include filter (show only matching lines).
.TP
.B :fn \fIpattern\fR
Add exclude filter (hide matching lines).
.TP
.B :fc
Clear all filters.
.TP
.B :fl
List active filters.
.SS Process Visibility
.TP
.B :hide \fIname\fR
Hide logs from a specific process.
.TP
.B :show \fIname\fR
Show logs from a specific process.
.TP
.B :hide all
Hide all process logs.
.TP
.B :show all
Show all process logs.
.TP
.B :only \fIname\fR
Show only one process, hide all others.
.SS Batch Navigation
.TP
.B :nb
Next batch.
.TP
.B :pb
Previous batch.
.TP
.B :sb
Toggle batch view mode.
.TP
.B :bw \fI[milliseconds]\fR
Show or set batch window (default: 100ms).
.TP
.B :bw fast|medium|slow
Presets: 100ms / 1000ms / 5000ms.
.SS Time Navigation
.TP
.B :goto HH:MM[:SS]
Jump to absolute time.
.TP
.B :goto -5m, :goto +30s
Jump relative to current selection. Supports s, m, h units.
.TP
.B :g
Short form of :goto.
.SS Display
.TP
.B :color
Toggle process coloring on/off.
.TP
.B :traces
Scan logs for correlation IDs and show selection overlay.
.SH IPC COMMANDS
When a TUI instance is running, these subcommands communicate with it via IPC:
.TP
.B ping
Check if TUI is running.
.TP
.B status
Get status from running TUI.
.TP
.B processes
List all processes and their current status.
.TP
.B logs \fR[\fB--limit\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--offset\fR \fIN\fR]
Get recent log lines (default: 100).
.TP
.B search \fIpattern\fR [\fB--limit\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--case-sensitive\fR]
Search log lines for a pattern.
.TP
.B select \fIid\fR
Select a log line by ID and open expanded view.
.TP
.B context \fIid\fR [\fB--before\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--after\fR \fIN\fR]
Get context lines around a specific log line.
.TP
.B goto \fIid\fR
Jump to a specific log line by ID.
.TP
.B scroll \fIdirection\fR [\fB--lines\fR \fIN\fR]
Scroll the log view (up, down, top, bottom).
.TP
.B freeze \fR[\fImode\fR]
Freeze or unfreeze the display (on, off, toggle).
.TP
.B filters
List current filters.
.TP
.B filter-add \fIpattern\fR [\fB--exclude\fR]
Add a new filter.
.TP
.B filter-remove \fIpattern\fR
Remove a filter by pattern.
.TP
.B filter-clear
Clear all filters.
.TP
.B visibility
List visibility status for all processes.
.TP
.B hide \fIname\fR
Hide a process from log view.
.TP
.B show \fIname\fR
Show a hidden process.
.TP
.BR restart ", " r " " \fI[name]\fR
Restart a process or all processes.
.TP
.BR kill ", " k " " \fIname\fR
Kill a running process.
.TP
.BR start ", " s " " \fIname\fR
Start a stopped process.
.TP
.B errors \fR[\fB--limit\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--level\fR error|warning] [\fB--process\fR \fIname\fR]
Get recent error/warning log lines.
.TP
.B summary
Get comprehensive AI-friendly summary of current state.
.TP
.B batch \fIid\fR [\fB--scroll\fR]
Get all log lines from a specific batch.
.TP
.B trace
Get trace recording status and active trace info.
.TP
.B commands
List available IPC commands.
.SH OTHER COMMANDS
.TP
.B skill install
Install the AI skill to .claude/skills or .cursor/skills for Claude Code/Cursor integration.
.TP
.B vscode install
Install the VS Code extension from GitHub releases.
.TP
.B cursor install
Install the Cursor extension from GitHub releases.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file (\fB.overitall.toml\fR) uses TOML format:
.PP
.nf
# Path to your Procfile
procfile = "Procfile"

# Process-specific configuration
[processes.web]
log_file = "log/web.log"

[processes.worker]
log_file = "log/worker.log"

# Filters
[filters]
include = ["INFO", "ERROR"]
exclude = ["DEBUG"]

# Hidden processes
hidden_processes = ["worker"]
.fi
.SS Configuration Options
.TP
.B procfile
Path to your Procfile (required).
.TP
.B processes.<name>.log_file
Path to the log file for a specific process.
.TP
.B processes.<name>.status
Custom status configuration with pattern-based transitions.
.TP
.B log_files
Array of standalone log files to tail.
.TP
.B filters.include
Array of regex patterns to include.
.TP
.B filters.exclude
Array of regex patterns to exclude.
.TP
.B hidden_processes
Array of process names to hide from log viewer.
.TP
.B ignored_processes
Array of process names to skip entirely.
.TP
.B start_processes
Array of process names to auto-start. If empty or omitted, all processes
start automatically. Processes not in this list remain stopped but visible;
use \fB:s\fR to start them manually. CLI arguments override this setting.
.TP
.B max_log_buffer_mb
Maximum memory for log buffer in megabytes (default: 50).
.TP
.B batch_window_ms
Batch grouping window in milliseconds (default: 100).
.TP
.B context_copy_seconds
Time window for contextual copy in seconds (default: 1.0).
.TP
.B disable_auto_update
Set to true to disable auto-update checks.
.TP
.B compact_mode
Set to false to show full log lines by default.
.TP
.B process_coloring
Colorize process names in the log view (default: true).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .overitall.toml
Default configuration file in the current directory.
.TP
.I Procfile
Default process definition file.
.TP
.I .oit.sock
Unix socket for IPC communication with running TUI.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize a new project:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit --init
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start TUI with custom config:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit -c my-config.toml
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a different Procfile:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit -f Procfile.dev
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start only specific processes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit web worker
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check TUI status via IPC:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit status
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search logs for errors:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit search "ERROR" --limit 50
.fi
.RE
.PP
Restart a specific process:
.PP
.RS
.nf
oit restart worker
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error or IPC command failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Jeremy Wells <https://github.com/jemmyw>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/aha-app/overitall/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR overmind (1),
.BR foreman (1),
.BR lnav (1)
.PP
Full documentation: https://github.com/aha-app/overitall
