README.md, before:

# Overitall (`oit`)

A terminal user interface (TUI) for process and log management, combining the best of [overmind](https://github.com/DarthSim/overmind) (process management) and [lnav](https://lnav.org/) (log viewing).

## What is Overitall?

Overitall (`oit`) is a Rust-based TUI that helps you manage multiple processes and their logs in a single, interactive interface. It's perfect for development environments where you need to run and monitor multiple services simultaneously (like Rails apps with web servers, background workers, and other services).

### Key Features

- **Process Management**: Start, stop, and restart processes defined in a Procfile
- **Unified Log Viewing**: View logs from multiple sources in a single, interleaved stream
- **Advanced Filtering**: Include or exclude log lines with regex patterns
- **Process Visibility Toggle**: Hide/show logs from specific processes on demand
- **Search**: Full-text search with highlighting across all logs
- **Batch Navigation**: Navigate through groups of related log lines that arrived together
- **Trace Detection**: Find correlation IDs (UUIDs, trace IDs) and filter to specific traces
- **Persistent Configuration**: Filters and settings are automatically saved
- **Vim-style Commands**: Familiar `:command` interface for power users
- **Auto-Update**: Automatically checks for and installs updates on startup

## Installation

### From GitHub Releases (Recommended)

Download the latest release for macOS:

```bash
# Download and install the latest release
curl -L https://github.com/jemmyw/overitall/releases/latest/download/oit-macos-arm64.tar.gz | tar xz
sudo mv oit /usr/local/bin/
```

Or download manually from the [releases page](https://github.com/jemmyw/overitall/releases).

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jemmyw/overitall.git
cd overitall
cargo build --release
```

The binary will be at `target/release/oit`. You can copy it to your PATH:

```bash
cp target/release/oit /usr/local/bin/
```

## Quick Start

1. Create a `Procfile` in your project directory:

```procfile
web: bundle exec rails server
worker: bundle exec sidekiq
```

2. Generate a default configuration file:

```bash
oit --init
```

This creates a `.overitall.toml` file with all processes from your Procfile:

```toml
procfile = "Procfile"
batch_window_ms = 100

[processes.web]
log_file = "logs/web.log"

[processes.worker]
log_file = "logs/worker.log"

[filters]
include = []
exclude = []
```

Edit the generated config to customize log file paths and other settings.

Alternatively, you can create the config file manually or specify a custom path:

```bash
oit --init -c custom-config.toml
```

3. Run `oit`:

```bash
oit
```

Or specify a custom config file:

```bash
oit --config path/to/config.toml
oit -c path/to/config.toml
```

## Usage

### Keyboard Shortcuts

#### Navigation
- `↑` / `↓` - Select previous/next log line
- `Enter` - Expand selected line (show full content in overlay)
- `j` / `k` - Scroll down/up
- `g` / `G` - Jump to top/bottom
- `?` - Show help overlay
- `q` - Quit application

#### Modes
- `:` - Enter command mode
- `/` - Enter search mode
- `Esc` - Exit current mode, close overlays, or jump to latest logs


#### Batch Navigation
- `[` / `]` - Previous/next batch

#### Clipboard & Batch Operations
- `c` - Copy selected line to clipboard (with timestamp and process)
- `C` - Copy entire batch to clipboard (all lines in batch)
- `b` - Focus on batch containing the selected line

### Commands

All commands are entered by pressing `:` followed by the command.

#### Process Management

- `:s <name>` - Start a process
- `:r <name>` - Restart a process
- `:k <name>` - Kill (stop) a process

Example:
```
:r worker    # Restart the worker process
:k web       # Stop the web process
:s web       # Start the web process
```

#### Filtering

- `:f <pattern>` - Add include filter (show only matching lines)
- `:fn <pattern>` - Add exclude filter (hide matching lines)
- `:fc` - Clear all filters
- `:fl` - List active filters

Filters support regex patterns:
```
:f ERROR                    # Show only lines containing ERROR
:fn DEBUG                   # Hide lines containing DEBUG
:f \[Worker\]              # Show only lines from Worker (escaped brackets)
```

#### Process Visibility

Hide or show logs from specific processes temporarily. This is useful when you want to focus on certain processes without permanently filtering their logs.

- `:hide <name>` - Hide logs from a specific process
- `:show <name>` - Show logs from a specific process
- `:hide all` - Hide all process logs
- `:show all` - Show all process logs

Examples:
```
:hide worker        # Hide logs from the worker process
:show worker        # Show logs from the worker process again
:hide all           # Hide all process logs
:show all           # Show all process logs
```

When a process is hidden, it will be marked as `[Hidden]` in the process list, and its logs will not appear in the log viewer. Hidden processes are saved to the configuration file and persist across restarts.

#### Batch Navigation

Log lines that arrive within a short time window are grouped into "batches". This helps you see related log output together.

- `:nb` - Next batch
- `:pb` - Previous batch
- `:sb` - Toggle batch view mode (show only current batch)
- `:bw <milliseconds>` - Set batch window (default: 100ms)

You can also use `[` and `]` keys for quick batch navigation.

The batch window determines how close in time log lines must be to be grouped together. Adjust it based on your application's logging patterns (e.g., `:bw 1000` for 1 second window).

#### Search

- `/` - Start search (filters logs as you type)
- `Enter` - In search mode: enter selection mode (selects the last match)
- `↑` / `↓` - Navigate between matches in selection mode
- `Enter` - In expanded view: show context around the selected log
- `Esc` - Step back through modes (selection → typing → exit)

The search filters logs in real-time as you type. Press Enter to enter selection mode where you can navigate through the filtered results with arrow keys. Press Esc to step back: from selection mode back to typing, or from typing mode to exit search completely.

## Configuration

The configuration file (`.overitall.toml` by default) uses TOML format:

```toml
# Path to your Procfile
procfile = "Procfile"

# Process-specific configuration
[processes.web]
log_file = "log/web.log"

[processes.worker]
log_file = "log/worker.log"

[processes.scheduler]
log_file = "log/scheduler.log"

# Filters (automatically saved when you add/remove filters)
[filters]
include = ["INFO", "ERROR"]
exclude = ["DEBUG"]

# Hidden processes (automatically saved when you hide/show processes)
hidden_processes = ["worker"]
```

### Configuration Options

- `procfile` - Path to your Procfile (required)
- `processes.<name>.log_file` - Path to the log file for a specific process (optional)
- `filters.include` - Array of regex patterns to include
- `filters.exclude` - Array of regex patterns to exclude
- `hidden_processes` - Array of process names to hide from log viewer (automatically saved)
- `max_log_buffer_mb` - Maximum memory for log buffer in megabytes (default: 50)
- `batch_window_ms` - Batch grouping window in milliseconds (default: 100)
- `disable_auto_update` - Set to `true` to disable auto-update checks (default: false)

### Auto-Update

Overitall automatically checks for updates on every startup. When a new version is available, it will:

1. Download the update from GitHub releases
2. Replace the current binary
3. Restart with the new version

This requires the `gh` CLI to be installed and authenticated (for private repo access during beta):

```bash
# Install gh CLI (https://cli.github.com/)
brew install gh

# Authenticate
gh auth login
```

To skip the update check, use the `--no-update` flag:

```bash
oit --no-update
```

Or disable auto-update permanently in your config file:

```toml
disable_auto_update = true
```

### Memory Management

By default, Overitall limits the log buffer to 50 MB. When this limit is reached, the oldest logs are automatically evicted (First-In-First-Out).

Configure the buffer size in your `.overitall.toml`:

```toml
max_log_buffer_mb = 100  # Allow up to 100 MB of logs
```

The status bar shows current buffer usage and warns when eviction occurs. This prevents memory issues with long-running processes and high-volume logs.

## Example Setup

An example configuration is provided in the `example/` directory:

```bash
cd example
oit -c overitall.toml
```

This runs a simple demo with mock processes that generate log output for testing.

## Development

### Building

```bash
# Debug build
cargo build

# Release build
cargo build --release

# Run in development
cargo run

# Run with custom config
cargo run -- -c example/overitall.toml
```

### Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
cargo test

# Review snapshot test changes
cargo install cargo-insta
cargo insta review
```

## Architecture

Overitall is built with a modular architecture:

- **Log System**: Extensible log sources, parsing, buffering, and filtering
- **Process Manager**: Manages process lifecycle and delegates log handling to log module
- **Configuration**: TOML-based configuration with auto-save for filters
- **TUI**: Built with ratatui, testable with TestBackend for snapshot testing

### Key Dependencies

- **ratatui** - Terminal UI framework
- **tokio** - Async runtime for process management
- **crossterm** - Terminal manipulation
- **serde/toml** - Configuration parsing
- **chrono** - Timestamp tracking
- **regex** - Pattern matching for filters and search

## Project Status

Overitall is under active development. Current features:

- Easy initialization with `--init` flag (automatically generates config from Procfile)
- Process management (start/stop/restart)
- Log file tailing and interleaved viewing
- Filtering (include/exclude patterns)
- Process visibility toggle (hide/show logs from specific processes)
- Search with highlighting
- Batch detection and navigation
- Line selection and expanded view (view full content of long log lines)
- Clipboard operations (copy lines and batches to system clipboard)
- Batch focus from selected line
- Dynamic batch window configuration (adjust batch grouping on-the-fly)
- Trace detection and filtering (find correlation IDs like UUIDs)
- Persistent configuration
- Help system
- Auto-update on startup (via gh CLI)

#### Trace Detection

Find correlation IDs (UUIDs, trace IDs, etc.) that appear multiple times in your logs:

- `:traces` - Scan logs for correlation IDs and show selection overlay
- `Enter` - Select a trace to filter logs to only that trace
- `[` / `]` - Expand trace view backward/forward in time (5 seconds per press)
- `Esc` - Exit trace view and return to normal log display

Traces are detected as tokens that:
- Look like correlation IDs (UUIDs, long numbers, long hex strings, etc.)
- Appear 3 or more times in the logs
- Don't span the entire log buffer (those are likely config values)

This is useful for debugging request flows through multi-service architectures.

Planned features:

- Rails-specific log format parsing
- Additional log sources (syslog, HTTP endpoints)
- Performance optimizations for large log volumes
- Extended metadata display

## License

[Your license here]

## Contributing

[Your contributing guidelines here]

Commit message:

feat: add manual trace capture with 's' key
Adds ability to manually capture logs during a time window without
needing correlation IDs. Press 's' to start recording (shows "● REC"
indicator in status bar with elapsed time), then 's' again to stop
and enter trace filter mode with captured logs. Press Esc to cancel
during recording or exit trace mode after capture.

README.md, after:

# Overitall (`oit`)

A terminal user interface (TUI) for process and log management, combining the best of [overmind](https://github.com/DarthSim/overmind) (process management) and [lnav](https://lnav.org/) (log viewing).

## What is Overitall?

Overitall (`oit`) is a Rust-based TUI that helps you manage multiple processes and their logs in a single, interactive interface. It's perfect for development environments where you need to run and monitor multiple services simultaneously (like Rails apps with web servers, background workers, and other services).

### Key Features

- **Process Management**: Start, stop, and restart processes defined in a Procfile
- **Unified Log Viewing**: View logs from multiple sources in a single, interleaved stream
- **Advanced Filtering**: Include or exclude log lines with regex patterns
- **Process Visibility Toggle**: Hide/show logs from specific processes on demand
- **Search**: Full-text search with highlighting across all logs
- **Batch Navigation**: Navigate through groups of related log lines that arrived together
- **Trace Detection**: Find correlation IDs (UUIDs, trace IDs) and filter to specific traces
- **Persistent Configuration**: Filters and settings are automatically saved
- **Vim-style Commands**: Familiar `:command` interface for power users
- **Auto-Update**: Automatically checks for and installs updates on startup

## Installation

### From GitHub Releases (Recommended)

Download the latest release for macOS:

```bash
# Download and install the latest release
curl -L https://github.com/jemmyw/overitall/releases/latest/download/oit-macos-arm64.tar.gz | tar xz
sudo mv oit /usr/local/bin/
```

Or download manually from the [releases page](https://github.com/jemmyw/overitall/releases).

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jemmyw/overitall.git
cd overitall
cargo build --release
```

The binary will be at `target/release/oit`. You can copy it to your PATH:

```bash
cp target/release/oit /usr/local/bin/
```

## Quick Start

1. Create a `Procfile` in your project directory:

```procfile
web: bundle exec rails server
worker: bundle exec sidekiq
```

2. Generate a default configuration file:

```bash
oit --init
```

This creates a `.overitall.toml` file with all processes from your Procfile:

```toml
procfile = "Procfile"
batch_window_ms = 100

[processes.web]
log_file = "logs/web.log"

[processes.worker]
log_file = "logs/worker.log"

[filters]
include = []
exclude = []
```

Edit the generated config to customize log file paths and other settings.

Alternatively, you can create the config file manually or specify a custom path:

```bash
oit --init -c custom-config.toml
```

3. Run `oit`:

```bash
oit
```

Or specify a custom config file:

```bash
oit --config path/to/config.toml
oit -c path/to/config.toml
```

## Usage

### Keyboard Shortcuts

#### Navigation
- `↑` / `↓` - Select previous/next log line
- `Enter` - Expand selected line (show full content in overlay)
- `j` / `k` - Scroll down/up
- `g` / `G` - Jump to top/bottom
- `?` - Show help overlay
- `q` - Quit application

#### Modes
- `:` - Enter command mode
- `/` - Enter search mode
- `Esc` - Exit current mode, close overlays, or jump to latest logs


#### Batch Navigation
- `[` / `]` - Previous/next batch

#### Clipboard & Batch Operations
- `c` - Copy selected line to clipboard (with timestamp and process)
- `C` - Copy entire batch to clipboard (all lines in batch)
- `b` - Focus on batch containing the selected line

### Commands

All commands are entered by pressing `:` followed by the command.

#### Process Management

- `:s <name>` - Start a process
- `:r <name>` - Restart a process
- `:k <name>` - Kill (stop) a process

Example:
```
:r worker    # Restart the worker process
:k web       # Stop the web process
:s web       # Start the web process
```

#### Filtering

- `:f <pattern>` - Add include filter (show only matching lines)
- `:fn <pattern>` - Add exclude filter (hide matching lines)
- `:fc` - Clear all filters
- `:fl` - List active filters

Filters support regex patterns:
```
:f ERROR                    # Show only lines containing ERROR
:fn DEBUG                   # Hide lines containing DEBUG
:f \[Worker\]              # Show only lines from Worker (escaped brackets)
```

#### Process Visibility

Hide or show logs from specific processes temporarily. This is useful when you want to focus on certain processes without permanently filtering their logs.

- `:hide <name>` - Hide logs from a specific process
- `:show <name>` - Show logs from a specific process
- `:hide all` - Hide all process logs
- `:show all` - Show all process logs

Examples:
```
:hide worker        # Hide logs from the worker process
:show worker        # Show logs from the worker process again
:hide all           # Hide all process logs
:show all           # Show all process logs
```

When a process is hidden, it will be marked as `[Hidden]` in the process list, and its logs will not appear in the log viewer. Hidden processes are saved to the configuration file and persist across restarts.

#### Batch Navigation

Log lines that arrive within a short time window are grouped into "batches". This helps you see related log output together.

- `:nb` - Next batch
- `:pb` - Previous batch
- `:sb` - Toggle batch view mode (show only current batch)
- `:bw <milliseconds>` - Set batch window (default: 100ms)

You can also use `[` and `]` keys for quick batch navigation.

The batch window determines how close in time log lines must be to be grouped together. Adjust it based on your application's logging patterns (e.g., `:bw 1000` for 1 second window).

#### Search

- `/` - Start search (filters logs as you type)
- `Enter` - In search mode: enter selection mode (selects the last match)
- `↑` / `↓` - Navigate between matches in selection mode
- `Enter` - In expanded view: show context around the selected log
- `Esc` - Step back through modes (selection → typing → exit)

The search filters logs in real-time as you type. Press Enter to enter selection mode where you can navigate through the filtered results with arrow keys. Press Esc to step back: from selection mode back to typing, or from typing mode to exit search completely.

## Configuration

The configuration file (`.overitall.toml` by default) uses TOML format:

```toml
# Path to your Procfile
procfile = "Procfile"

# Process-specific configuration
[processes.web]
log_file = "log/web.log"

[processes.worker]
log_file = "log/worker.log"

[processes.scheduler]
log_file = "log/scheduler.log"

# Filters (automatically saved when you add/remove filters)
[filters]
include = ["INFO", "ERROR"]
exclude = ["DEBUG"]

# Hidden processes (automatically saved when you hide/show processes)
hidden_processes = ["worker"]
```

### Configuration Options

- `procfile` - Path to your Procfile (required)
- `processes.<name>.log_file` - Path to the log file for a specific process (optional)
- `filters.include` - Array of regex patterns to include
- `filters.exclude` - Array of regex patterns to exclude
- `hidden_processes` - Array of process names to hide from log viewer (automatically saved)
- `max_log_buffer_mb` - Maximum memory for log buffer in megabytes (default: 50)
- `batch_window_ms` - Batch grouping window in milliseconds (default: 100)
- `disable_auto_update` - Set to `true` to disable auto-update checks (default: false)

### Auto-Update

Overitall automatically checks for updates on every startup. When a new version is available, it will:

1. Download the update from GitHub releases
2. Replace the current binary
3. Restart with the new version

This requires the `gh` CLI to be installed and authenticated (for private repo access during beta):

```bash
# Install gh CLI (https://cli.github.com/)
brew install gh

# Authenticate
gh auth login
```

To skip the update check, use the `--no-update` flag:

```bash
oit --no-update
```

Or disable auto-update permanently in your config file:

```toml
disable_auto_update = true
```

### Memory Management

By default, Overitall limits the log buffer to 50 MB. When this limit is reached, the oldest logs are automatically evicted (First-In-First-Out).

Configure the buffer size in your `.overitall.toml`:

```toml
max_log_buffer_mb = 100  # Allow up to 100 MB of logs
```

The status bar shows current buffer usage and warns when eviction occurs. This prevents memory issues with long-running processes and high-volume logs.

## Example Setup

An example configuration is provided in the `example/` directory:

```bash
cd example
oit -c overitall.toml
```

This runs a simple demo with mock processes that generate log output for testing.

## Development

### Building

```bash
# Debug build
cargo build

# Release build
cargo build --release

# Run in development
cargo run

# Run with custom config
cargo run -- -c example/overitall.toml
```

### Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
cargo test

# Review snapshot test changes
cargo install cargo-insta
cargo insta review
```

## Architecture

Overitall is built with a modular architecture:

- **Log System**: Extensible log sources, parsing, buffering, and filtering
- **Process Manager**: Manages process lifecycle and delegates log handling to log module
- **Configuration**: TOML-based configuration with auto-save for filters
- **TUI**: Built with ratatui, testable with TestBackend for snapshot testing

### Key Dependencies

- **ratatui** - Terminal UI framework
- **tokio** - Async runtime for process management
- **crossterm** - Terminal manipulation
- **serde/toml** - Configuration parsing
- **chrono** - Timestamp tracking
- **regex** - Pattern matching for filters and search

## Project Status

Overitall is under active development. Current features:

- Easy initialization with `--init` flag (automatically generates config from Procfile)
- Process management (start/stop/restart)
- Log file tailing and interleaved viewing
- Filtering (include/exclude patterns)
- Process visibility toggle (hide/show logs from specific processes)
- Search with highlighting
- Batch detection and navigation
- Line selection and expanded view (view full content of long log lines)
- Clipboard operations (copy lines and batches to system clipboard)
- Batch focus from selected line
- Dynamic batch window configuration (adjust batch grouping on-the-fly)
- Trace detection and filtering (find correlation IDs like UUIDs)
- Manual trace capture (record logs during a time window with `s` key)
- Persistent configuration
- Help system
- Auto-update on startup (via gh CLI)

#### Trace Detection

Find correlation IDs (UUIDs, trace IDs, etc.) that appear multiple times in your logs:

- `:traces` - Scan logs for correlation IDs and show selection overlay
- `Enter` - Select a trace to filter logs to only that trace
- `[` / `]` - Expand trace view backward/forward in time (5 seconds per press)
- `Esc` - Exit trace view and return to normal log display

Traces are detected as tokens that:
- Look like correlation IDs (UUIDs, long numbers, long hex strings, etc.)
- Appear 3 or more times in the logs
- Don't span the entire log buffer (those are likely config values)

This is useful for debugging request flows through multi-service architectures.

#### Manual Trace Capture

Capture logs during a specific time window without needing correlation IDs:

- `s` - Start recording (status bar shows "● REC" with elapsed time)
- `s` - Press again to stop recording and enter trace view with captured logs
- `Esc` - Cancel recording (if pressed while recording) or exit trace view (after capture)
- `[` / `]` - Expand time window backward/forward (same as auto-detected traces)

This is useful when you want to isolate logs for a specific action (like clicking a button or running a command) without needing correlation IDs in your logs.

Planned features:

- Rails-specific log format parsing
- Additional log sources (syslog, HTTP endpoints)
- Performance optimizations for large log volumes
- Extended metadata display

## License

[Your license here]

## Contributing

[Your contributing guidelines here]
